# Transcriptionfactor_unbinding
This repository contains the starting structures and GROMACS input files to run conventional molecular dynamics simulations, MD simulations with NMR restraints and metadynamics on a complex between the transcription factor LacI and different sequences of DNA. The two sequences are OSymL, the specific sequence, and NOD, the non-specific sequence, in this case. The input files are therefore often split into OSymL and NOD subfolders and it is important to use the correct input files for the simulations with either sequence. Scripts to produce plumed input files for different sequences are included.

nmr2gmxpy_1OSL
--------------
Contains in- and output files for/generated by nmr2gmxpy for the NMR structure with PDB ID 1OSL.
It is recommended to run this yourself starting with the .pdb and mr.str files from the PDB.
https://github.com/dspoel/nmr2gmxpy

Edit_NMR_Restraints
------------------- 
Contains a script that modifies the atom IDs in the restraint files generated by nmr2gmxpy to match the atom IDs in the starting structure of the simulation.
The restraint files in the out folder allow the usage of NMR restraints from a structure of the transcription factor DNA-binding domains (PDB ID 1OSL) on a crystal structure of the same protein. The crystal structure contains more domains of the protein and differs in one of the amino acids in the sequence (PDB ID 1EFA).
NMR restraints need to be included in the GROMACS topology with #include "DH.itp".

GROMACS_input
-------------
.mdp files for the equilibration and production runs. The equilibration is the same for all simulations but the production inputs differ for normal, NMR restraint and metadynamics simulations.

DNA_restraints
-------------
Contains restraint files that prevent the DNA ends from fraying.
Need to be included in GROMACS topology with #include "DNA_bonds.itp".

GMX_2023.sh
-----------
A bash script that can be modified to facilitate the preparation of the simulation.

PLUMED_input
------------
Contains plumed input files for metadynamics using different collective variables (plumed_run.dat in each of the subfolders of PLUMED_files) and for analysing the simulations regarding a number of CVs (plumed_print.dat). It also contains a folder with reference .pdb files for each of the complexes (pdbs_plumed_numbering). 

Starting_Structures
-------------------
Contains the .pdb files that the simulations were started from.

Submission_Scripts
------------------
Contains the bash scripts used to run the different steps of the simulations. Equilibration steps are the same but the production differ for NMR restraint MD and metadynamics. Also the versions of GROMACS and the type of parallelisation differs between the two simulations (GROMACS 2019.6 without MPI parallelisation has been used for the NMR simulations and GROMACS 2021.3 patched with plumed 2.7.2 and MPI parallelisation for the metadynamics). 
These scripts need to be adjusted to the versions of the programs used and the computer the simulations are run on.

amber99sbws_mod_K.ff
--------------------
AMBER99sbws force field with potassium parameters from Dang, Liem X., and Peter A. Kollman. 1995. The Journal of Physical Chemistry 99 (1): 55–58.

Analysis_Scripts
----------------
Scripts for the analysis and plotting of data from simulations either obtained from GROMACS or PLUMED functions.

1OSL_CV_analsyis
----------------
Preparation of PDB file of the 1osl structure after mutating Cys52 back to Val52 and adjusting the atom names to the one used for the crystal structure to obtain PLUMED input files that can be used to analyse the NMR structure in the same way as the crystal structure and simulations.

